# Global owners

* @hbushouse @stscieisenhamer @stscicrawford
jwst/ami                 @dmggh             @hbushouse
jwst/assign_wcs          @nden              @sosey
jwst/associations        @stscieisenhamer
jwst/background          @hbushouse         @sosey
jwst/barshadow           @stscirij
jwst/combine_1d          @philhodge         @stscirij
jwst/coron               @hbushouse         @mcara
jwst/cube_build          @jemorrison        @stsci-hack
jwst/cube_skymatch       @mcara
jwst/dark_current        @dmggh             @hbushouse
jwst/dq_init             @stscirij          @philhodge
jwst/emission            @dmggh             @stscirij
jwst/engdblog            @stscieisenhamer
jwst/extract_1d          @philhodge         @mcara
jwst/extract_2d          @nden              @philhodge
jwst/fits_generator      @stscirij          @philhodge
jwst/flatfield           @dmggh             @philhodge
jwst/fringe              @jemorrison        @dmggh
jwst/imprint             @hbushouse         @sosey
jwst/ipc                 @philhodge         @stscirij
jwst/jump                @dmggh             @hbushouse
jwst/lastframe           @jemorrison        @dmggh
jwst/linearity           @hbushouse         @stscirij
jwst/nsclean             @hbushouse         @jemorrison
jwst/outlier_detection   @stsci-hack        @jdavies-st
jwst/persistence         @philhodge         @stscirij
jwst/photom              @hbushouse         @dmggh
jwst/pipeline            @stscieisenhamer   @stsci-hack
jwst/ramp_fitting        @dmggh             @philhodge
jwst/refpix              @stscirij          @philhodge
jwst/resample            @stsci-hack        @jdavies-st
jwst/reset               @jemorrison        @philhodge
jwst/rscd                @jemorrison        @philhodge
jwst/saturation          @dmggh             @hbushouse
jwst/lib                 @stscieisenhamer   @nden
jwst/skymatch            @mcara             @stsci-hack
jwst/source_catalog      @larrybradley      @jdavies-st
jwst/straylight          @jemorrison        @sosey
jwst/superbias           @hbushouse         @dmggh
jwst/timeconversion      @perrygreenfield   @philhodge
jwst/tweakreg            @mcara             @larrybradley
jwst/tweakreg_catalog    @larrybradley      @jdavies-st
jwst/wfs_combine         @dmggh             @perrygreenfield
jwst/datamodels          @bernie-simon
jwst/stpipe              @bernie-simon
